The United States reported more than 48,400 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, the fifth single-day case record in eight days. North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas hit daily records, with Texas reaching more than 8,000 new infections.

As new cases rise, states and localities have reversed course on reopenings. New York City decided not to let its restaurants resume indoor service next week as originally planned. Miami Beach said that it would reinstate a nightly curfew beginning Thursday at 12:30 a.m., extending until 5 a.m., to try to curb the spread. And California shut down bars and halted indoor dining at restaurants in 19 counties that are home to more than 70 percent of the state’s population.

New outbreaks are erupting in the South and West, and areas that have made progress against the virus are showing signs of resurgence. Several Republican-led states that moved quickly to reopen this spring at the urging of President Trump are now reimposing some restrictions.

Arizona, which Mr. Trump visited in May and praised for its reopening plans, is now seeing record numbers of new cases, and Gov. Doug Ducey decided this week to close its water parks and to order bars, gyms and movie theaters in the state to close for 30 days. On Wednesday, Vice President Mike Pence visited Arizona to discuss the crisis as the state reported more than 4,700 new cases.

California, which was the first state to shut down and which took some of the most aggressive actions to contain the virus, has seen a recent explosion in cases after it eased restrictions, leading the governor to move Wednesday to close bars and halt indoor dining in much of the state.

Mr. Pence told Mr. Ducey that the federal government would help the state with a request for 500 additional public health personnel by mobilizing doctors, nurses and technical personnel.

And in Florida, which had more than 6,500 new cases on Wednesday, Miami’s biggest public hospital announced that it would stop non-urgent elective surgeries as of Monday. The caseload at the hospital, Jackson Memorial, has doubled over the past two weeks.

Surging infection rates have thrown Texas cities into crisis mode just days before the July Fourth weekend. The state has recorded more than 174,000 cases and at least 2,500 deaths, according to a New York Times database. More than 8,000 new cases were announced across Texas on Wednesday, surpassing the previous daily record set on Tuesday.

With some hospitals near capacity, officials have been forced to bring in health care reinforcements from out of state. Ambulances in Houston have been waiting up to an hour to unload patients at emergency rooms, officials said.

The Texas Republican Executive Committee will meet Thursday night to consider shifting its in-person state convention in July to a virtual event,  said the state party chairman, James Dickey. The Texas Medical Association has called for cancellation of the Houston event, which could draw 4,000 to 6,000 delegates.

Some conservatives and libertarians have made opposition to masks a political cause, but, as cases surge, a growing number of Republican governors are trying to send a different message.

The new entreaties follow months of misinformation, debate and confusion about the question of wearing a mask. Early in the pandemic, government officials instructed Americans not to buy or wear masks. In April, they revised that guidance, advising that cloth face coverings were recommended.

On Monday, Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia posted a selfie wearing a mask decorated with the University of Georgia’s bulldog mascot. "Wear your mask, Georgia — and go Dawgs!" he wrote. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who regularly wears a mask in public, said in Washington this week that there must be "no stigma" about wearing masks.